README.md, before:

## Database Development with Data Analysis for a Online Retail Store 

## Objective

	This is a part of  a freelancing project. Client had asked to develop a database with few tables. Also instructed to establish relationships among tables, apply multiple constraints wherever needed.  Client has given a set of 30+ questions to be answered as a part of data analysis process and share any insights wherever possible. 	
	As a result a complete set of DDL and DML commands with ERD was provided to clients. 
	
---

## Tools

-	SQL Server 
-	MsExcel 

---
	   
## Process

-	Designed and created database schema, including tables and relationships.
-	Developed basic CRUD operations and implemented stored procedures, triggers and views.
-	Created ER diagrams to document the database design.
-	Analyzed and optimized slow-performing queries using execution plans and indexing strategies.
-	Implemented role-based access control to secure sensitive data.
-	Developed backup strategies, including full, differential, and transaction log backups.
-	Conducted data analysis to generate insights on sales patterns.

---

## Key Accomplishments:

-	Optimized simple queries, reducing execution time by up to 20%.
-	Presented findings in a detailed report, improving understanding of sales and orders trends.

Commit message:

indexes and views development with added data analysis queries

README.md, after:

## Database Development with Data Analysis for a Online Retail Store 


## Objective

Client wants a database to be created where he can save his store's data, run business queries to make data driven decisions. 
Client also instructed to established relationships among tables, apply  constraints, create procedures and triggers and whichever way possible optimize the database for optimal performances. 
 
Client has given a set of 30+ questions to be answered as a part of data analysis stage. 
As discussed with the client, with this information, client wants to be able to make informed decisions about products and customers.	

As a result a complete set of DDL and DML commands with ERD is to be developed and has to be provided to the client. 	

---

## Stages 

-	Design 
-	Development 
-	Data Analysis 
-	Applying procedures
-	Performance optimization
-	Security and backup

---

## Tools

-	SQL Server 
-	MsExcel 
-	Hosting the project document

---
	   
## Process

-	Designed and created database schema, including tables and relationships.
-	Developed basic CRUD operations and implemented stored procedures, triggers and views.
-	Created ER diagrams to document the database design.
-	Analyzed and optimized slow-performing queries using execution plans and indexing strategies.
-	Implemented role-based access control to secure sensitive data.
-	Developed backup strategies, including full, differential, and transaction log backups.
-	Conducted data analysis to generate insights on sales patterns.

---

## Accomplishments:

-	Optimized simple queries, reducing execution time by up to 20%.
-	Presented findings in a detailed report, improving understanding of sales and orders trends.
